
OPEN DESIGN CONTEST

Test Your Design Skills

Open Design Contest endeavors to challenge your designing skills to come up with new products/ideas and stimulates your creative ability in coming up with improvements for existing products. Anything that might enhance the quality of life qualifies a genuine entry for this competition. So, let your ideas see the daylight and overawe others with your innovatory might.

But make sure that you have read Open Hardware too before deciding your entry. Make sure your entry is in the appropriate competition.
 

Problem Statement
Judging Criteria
General Rules
Download Rules 
Other Requirements
Queries
Register
Schedule


PROBLEM STATEMENT:

Your design may belong to any of the following categories:

   1. A functional or ergonomic new product/product design.
   2. Upgradation of an existing product that improves the quality of routine life.
   3. Safety devices.
   4. A new or radically improved process or system design.

A model/prototype of the product or a product design supplemented with audio/video demonstrations using design softwares will be essential for the competition.

JUDGING CRITERIA:

   1. Innovation - This is a very important criteria.
   2. Cost Effectiveness
   3. Manufacturability
   4. Marketability
   5. Design Effectiveness


GENERAL RULES:

   1. Students currently enrolled for up to an undergraduate/postgraduate program at their institute are eligible for the competition.
   2. Number of members per team should not exceed three.
   3. Every team has to register online at our website for the competition. A registration number will be allocated to the team on registration         which shall be used for future reference.
   4. Pre-event abstracts describing the design and highlighting the important aspects of the design needs to be submitted for the screening         round.
   5. The abstract should be mailed to abstract@techfest.org with the subject ‘Open Design abstract Reg. No. -------’ or posted to us at our         postal address. Do not forget to mention the registration number.
   6. In case the participants fail to submit the abstracts by the last date, their registration shall stand cancelled.
   7. Only the participants who qualify in the screening round based on judging of the abstracts shall be eligible for the finals at Techfest 2005.
   8. Teams will be given only one hour prior to the competition to set up their model/design at the venue for judging.
   9. A detailed report in support of the design and highlighting the important aspects should also be brought. The report will be considered for judging.
  10. Participants should submit their hardware, software and other requirements needed at the time of competition along with the abstract for the screening round.
  11. Selected entries will be displayed in an exhibition at Techfest.
  12. Judges decision shall be treated as final and binding on all.
  13. Kindly mention if there are any Intellectual Property Rights issues related to your project.

 

Other Requirements

We would provide computers if and only if required. Participants are required to bring stuff like adapters, batteries, extension cords etc by themselves. Also, they must carry their CPU with the required softwares installed for design demonstrations (if required) as compatibility problems may arise at the last moment. Other necessary things like monitor, keyboard, mouse etc would be provided. All the participants should communicate these requirements along with the abstracts for the screening round.


SCHEDULE:
To be announced soon.

IN CASE OF QUERIES, CONTACT:

Mandar Gadre
Manager, Competitions
mandar@techfest.org

Rahul Singh
Manager, Competitions
Rahul@techfest.oeg

 
	

 

 
